**ecgpuwave** analyses an ECG signal from the specified _record_, detecting the QRS complexes and locating the beginning, peak and end of:
 - P, 
 - QRS, 
 - ST-T. 
 
The output of **ecgpuwave** is written as a standard WFDB-format annotation file associated with the specified _annotator_. This file can be converted into text format using **rdann** or viewed using **wave**.

The QRS detector is based on the algorithm of Pan and Tompkins (reference 1) with some improvements that make use of slope information (reference 2). Optionally, QRS annotations can be provided as input (see option **-i**), permitting the use of external QRS detectors such as **sqrs** or manually-edited annotations (which can be created using **wave** ). The waveform limit locator is based on the algorithm described in reference 3 and evaluated in references 3 and 4.

The output annotation file contains: 

 - QRS annotations (NORMAL ("**N**") if generated by the built-in QRS detector, or copies of the input QRS annotations if these were supplied).
Then
 - PWAVE ("**p**")  
 - TWAVE ("**t**") 
that indicate the P- and T-wave **peaks**. **ecgpuwave** classifies each T wave as types (into the **num** field of each TWAVE annotation)
 - 0 (normal), 
 - 1 (inverted), 
 - 2 (positive monophasic), 
 - 3 (negative monophasic), 
 - 4 (biphasic negative-positive), 
 - or 5 (biphasic positive-negative); 
 
 
 The P, QRS, and T waveform onsets and ends are marked in the output annotation file using WFON ("**(**") and WFOFF ("**)**") annotations. 
 
 The **num** field of each WFON and WFOFF annotation designates the type of waveform with which it is associated: 
  - 0 for a P wave, 
  - 1 for a QRS complex, 
  - or 2 for a T wave.

**_Options_ include:**

**-f** _time_

Begin at the specified _time_ (default: the beginning of the record).

**-i** _input-annotator_

Read QRS locations from the specified _input-annotator_ (and copy them to the output annotation file). Default: run the built-in QRS detector.

**-n** _beat-type_

Specify which beats to process (must be used together with **-i**): _beat_type_ may be 0 (default: process all beats) or 1 (process only beats labelled as NORMAL ("**N**") by the input annotator).

**-s** _n_

Analyze signal _n_ (default: signal 0).

**-t** _time_

Stop at the specified _time_ (default: the end of the record).